This is Jockel Podcast number 60.
With echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink.
Good evening, echo.
Good evening.
What I am about to relate is anything but a pleasant story.
In fact, it is so very unpleasant that I cannot recommend anyone without a strong stomach
to read it.
For it is a story of such crime and horror as to almost be unbelievable.
The story of depredations of a horde of degraded criminals of incredible beastiality on a
peaceful, kindly law-abiding people.
I believe it has no parallel in modern history.
And that is a warning that was written by a man by the name of George Fitch, who was an
American in the city of Nanking, China.
He was working for the YMCA in 1937 when the Imperial Japanese Army invaded.
I am going to tell you that that warning is not strong enough.
I know that many of you listen to this podcast with your children.
And I am going to tell you right now, this podcast, this episode is not for children.
This episode is barely even for adults.
And I am sure that some of you will not make it through this podcast.
I almost decided not to do it.
This podcast, this episode is going to review a book called The Raper of Nanking by an author
by the name of Iris Chang.
And part of the reason that I decided that I had to cover this book is because of the
story that follows the story.
And that is of Iris Chang, the author, a bright, beautiful, intelligent, successful
and loving woman who was consumed by darkness.
And I will discuss her fate in a book that was written by her mother, Ying Ying Chang,
in a book called The Woman Who Could Not Forget.
And what happened in the city of Nanking is it is beyond darkness.
It is beyond evil.
It is pure savagery, wanton savagery of the highest order.
And part of me thinks maybe it's best if it is forgotten.
Maybe that's the best way to prevent it from happening again.
But part of me knows that that is wrong.
And the only way to learn is to study and to understand and to try and banish this from
our memories to me that leaves a door.
Leave a door open for something like this to happen again, somewhere, sometime.
But I want to warn you again that there are parts of this episode that are extremely
graphic.
And I didn't put it all in there, but I absolutely wanted people to understand that this
is what happened.
And I feel compelled to discuss it for one for Iris Chang who in my mind sacrificed everything
to tell the story to help ensure that those who suffered all remembered.
And also to ensure that the human race at large has the knowledge, has the warning that
evil exists.
And that mankind is capable of becoming engulfed in that evil.
And that man can act without mercy or remorse or the slightest shred of humanity at all.
Go into the book.
To prepare for the inevitable war with China, Japan had spent decades training its men
for combat.
The molding of young men deserve in the Japanese military began early in life.
And in the 1930s the Marshall Influenced Seept into every aspect of Japanese boyhood.
Toy shops became virtual shrines to war, selling arsenals of toy soldiers, tanks, helmets,
uniforms, rifles, anti-aircraft guns, bugles, and hawardsers.
Memoirs from that time describe preadolescent boys waging mock battles in the streets,
using bamboo poles as imaginary rifles.
Some even tied logs of wood on their back and fantasized about dying as human bomb heroes
in suicide missions.
And I can tell you, I grew up doing all that stuff.
We played war all the time.
All the time.
So I don't find anything shocking about that.
Back to the book, Japanese schools operated like miniature military units.
Indeed, some of the teachers were military officers who lectured students on their duty
to help Japan fulfill its divine destiny of conquering Asia and being able to stand up
to the world's nations as a people second to none.
Now we're starting to get off course.
They taught young boys how to handle wooden models of guns and older boys how to handle
real ones.
Textbooks became vehicles from military propaganda.
In geography book even used the shape of Japan as justification for expansion.
We appear to be standing in the vanguard of Asia, advancing bravely into the Pacific.
At the same time we appear ready to defend the Asian continent from outside attack.
Teachers also instilled in boys hatred and contempt for the Chinese people, preparing them
psychologically for a future invasion of the Chinese mainland.
One historian tells the story of a squamous Japanese schoolboy in the 1930s who burst into
tears when told the dissected a frog.
His teacher slammed his knuckles against the boys head and yelled, why are you crying about
one lousy frog?
When you grow up you'll have to kill 100-200 chinks.
Japanese minister of education declared that schools were run not for the benefit of the
students but for the good of the country.
Elementary school teachers were trained like military crutes with student teachers housed
in barracks and subject to harsh discipline and indoctrination.
In 1890 the imperial rescript on education emerged.
It laid down a code of ethics to govern not only students and teachers but every Japanese
citizen.
The rescript was the civilian equivalent of Japanese military codes which valued above all
obedience to authority and unconditional loyalty to the emperor.
In every Japanese school copy of the rescript was enshrined with a portrait of the emperor
and taken out each morning to be read.
It was reputed that more than one teacher who accidentally stumbled over the words committed
suicide to a tone for the insult to the sacred document.
So we've got a that's 1890 by the way, 1890.
So this is generations now that this is being plugged into the students' brains.
And these things, when we talk about students, we talk about children.
We teach them generally freedom is the ultimate goal, freedom is the ultimate.
The ultimate thing to strive for.
The ultimate thing to defend is freedom.
And here they're getting taught that the ultimate thing was obedience to authority and unconditional
loyalty.
Back to the book, it was commonplace for teachers to behave like sadistic drills start
and slapping children across the cheeks, hitting them with their fists or bludgeoning
them with bamboo or wooden swords.
Students were forced to hold heavy objects, sit on their knees, stand barefoot in the snow
or run around the playground until they collapse from exhaustion.
There were certainly few visits to the schools by indignant or even concerned parents.
The pressure to conform to authority intensified if the school boy decided to become a soldier.
Vicious hazing and relentless pecking order usually squelched any residual spirit of individualism
within him.
Obedience was touted as a supreme virtue.
And a sense of individual self-worth was replaced by a sense of value as a small cog in
the larger scheme of things.
We established this sublimation of individuality to the common good, superior officers
of older soldiers slapped recruits for almost no reason at all or beat them severely with
heaven and wooden rods.
According to the author Toshio, officers often justified unauthorized punishment saying,
I do not beat you because I hate you.
I beat you because I care for you.
Do you think I perform these acts with hands swollen and bloody in a state of madness?
Some youths died under such brutal physical conditions, others committed suicide.
The majority became tempered vessels into which the military could pour a new set of life
goals.
So this is complete, you know, militant raising of children and what I want to note here
is anybody that thinks, you know what, that probably produced some incredible warriors.
You're actually wrong.
Did it reduce warriors?
Yes, it did.
But let's remember that these warriors that were raised in this manner, when they had American
soldiers and marines that had to face them when they were incredibly well dug in defensive
positions and the Americans had to take beach fronts and beach heads, the free thinking
American soldier proved to be the better.
Back to the book, training was no less grueling a process for aspiring officers.
Above all, the Japanese cadets were to adopt a will which knows no defeat.
So terrified were the cadets of any hint of failure that examination results were kept secret
to minimize the risk of suicide.
So that's what again, this is going all the way back to 1890, so we've got 40, 50 years
worth before we get into this, where this massacre takes place.
Back to the book, in the summer of 1937, Japan finally succeeded in provoking a full-scale
war with China.
So Japan was now engaging in a war with China.
They went to Shanghai, the Japanese invaded Shanghai, big giant city, and they thought
they were going to have no factor, right?
Because they're getting told all the time that they're the best, and they're the supreme
warriors and all this.
Well going back to the book here, Japanese military leaders had boasted and seriously
believed that Japan could conquer all of mainland China within three months.
We got some arrogance going on here, but when a battle in a single Chinese city alone that
was Shanghai dragged from summer to fall and then from fall to winter, it shattered
Japanese fantasies of an easy victory.
Here, this primitive people, in literary, in military science and poorly trained, had managed
to fight the superior Japanese to a standstill.
And Shanghai finally fell in November the mood of the imperial troops had turned ugly.
And many say, and many it was said, lusted for revenge as they marched towards Nanking.
So they're on route now.
They had a hard time taking down Shanghai.
They got vengeance on their mind when they're going into the city of Nanking.
Back to the book.
Little was spared on the path to Nanking.
Japanese veterans remember raiding tiny farm communities where they clubbed or bayoneted
everyone in sight.
But small villages were not the only casualties.
Entire cities were raised to the ground.
Consider the example of Su Chau, a city on the east bank of Tai Hu Lake.
One of the oldest cities in China, it was prized for its delicate silk embroidery palaces
and temple temples.
This canals and ancient bridges had earned its earned the city, its western nickname
as the Venice of China.
On November 19th, on a morning of pouring rain, a Japanese advanced guard marched
to the gates of Su Chau wearing hoods that prevented the Chinese centuries from recognizing
them.
Once inside, the Japanese murdered and plundered the city for days, burning down ancient
landmarks and abducting thousands of Chinese women for sexual slavery.
The invasion, according to the China Weekly Review, caused a population of the city to
drop from 350,000 to less than 500.
But the worst was still to come.
Now there was a general that was sort of in charge of the Japanese that were heading to
to Nanking.
His name was General Matsui.
He seemed to have some semblance of honor to him and gave some pretty good, I would say,
benevolent type as benevolent as you can be when you're going into war of orders.
So here's one of the things that he proclaimed, the back to the book, the entry of the
Imperial Army into a foreign capital is a great event in our history, attracting the attention
of the world.
Therefore let no unit enter the city in a disorderly fashion.
Let them know beforehand the matters to be remembered in the position of foreign rights
and interests in the walled city.
Let them be absolutely free from plunder.
He's given some pretty, like I said, about his benevolent
orders as you could give, that was Matsui.
Well, unfortunately Matsui gets sick and he can't be the leader.
Although he kind of goes in and out of a leadership position as this is going on, there's
a new guy that comes in and the new guy that comes in is his actual royalty named Prince
Asaka.
Now Prince Asaka gets word.
He starts to get to understand the situation that they're going into and he gets told that
they're going to be when they take Nanking, they're going to have about 300,000 Chinese
troops to deal with.
And they get some preliminary word that it sounds like the Chinese are ready to surrender.
They kind of hear that intelligence.
They have spies in there and whatnot.
Back to the book, after Asaka heard this report, it was said that his headquarters sent
out a set of orders under his personal seal marked Secret to be destroyed.
We now know that the message of these orders was clear.
Kill all captives.
And they actually do have a copy of an order that came out.
And this was on December 13, 1937, the Japanese 66 battalion received the following command.
I'm not going to read the whole thing, but here's parts of it.
Battalion battle reporter at zero to zero zero received order from the Regiment Commander
to comply with orders from the brigade commanding headquarters, all prisoners of war are
to be executed.
Method of execution divide the prisoners into group of a dozen, shoot to kill separately.
Goes on to give some details about who's supposed to run this and then it continues back
to the book, the vicinity of the imprisonment must be heavily guarded.
Our intentions are absolutely not to be detected by the prisoners.
Every company is to complete preparation before zero 500 executions are to start promptly
by that time and action is to be finished by 730.
So there you go.
Straight up orders.
They're going to kill everyone.
It's very important to note here.
These are intentions are absolutely not to be detected.
So they were going to make it very clandestine and keep the Chinese from knowing that they
were going to kill them all.
Back to the book, there was a ruthless logic to the order.
The captives could not be fed so they had to be destroyed.
Killing them would not only eliminate the food problem, but diminish the possibility of retaliation.
Moreover, dead enemies could not form up into guerilla forces.
So they have their orders.
They go in and begin the operation.
Here we go.
Back to the book.
All this was easier to achieve than the Japanese had anticipated.
Resistance was sporadic.
Indeed, it was practically non-existent.
Having thrown away their arms when attempting to flee the city as the Japanese closed
in, many Chinese soldiers simply turned themselves in, hoping for better treatment.
Once the men surrendered and permitted their hands to be bound, the rest was easy.
So the Chinese give up their weapons and allow themselves to be taken.
Not a good idea.
Now we're going to go to a quote from a Japanese soldier named Azuma.
It was funny yet pitiful when I imagined how they gathered whatever white cloth they could
find attached it to a dead twig and marched forward just to surrender.
I thought how could they become prisoners with the kind of force that they had more than
two battalions and even without trying to show any resistance.
There must have been a considerable number of officers for this many troops but not a single
one remained.
All of them having slipped away and escaped, I thought.
Although we had two companies and those 7,000 prisoners had already been disarmed, our troops
could have been annihilated, had they decided to rise up and revolt.
I didn't go through too much of this but it was a chaotic scene when the Chinese realized
what was going to happen and as that indicated a lot of the senior leadership, they fled
the city and left the soldiers there.
Now with no leadership and what are they going to do?
The Japanese did psychological warfare on them and dropped leaflets that said, hey if you surrender
you'll be treated well, we have rice for you and that's what they did.
They lied, of course.
Back to the book, when the Japanese military received orders on December 17 to kill prisoners
they proceeded with extra caution.
That morning the Japanese announced that they were going to transport the Chinese prisoners
to a small island in the middle of the Yanzi River.
They explained to the captives that they needed to take special precautions to move for
the move and bound the captives hands behind their backs.
The tasks that took all morning and most of the afternoon.
Sometime between 4 and 6 p.m., the Japanese divided the prisoners into 4 columns and marched
them to the west, skirting the hills and stopping at the riverbank.
After three or four hours of waiting and not knowing what was going on the prisoners could
not see any preparations for crossing the river.
For corporal route, it was going dark. They did not know that Japanese soldiers already
encircled them in a crescent formation along the river and that they were in sites of
many machine guns.
By the time the executions began it was too late for the Chinese to escape.
Suddenly all kinds of guns fired at once.
Parihah, Richi wrote, the sound of the firearms mingled with the desperate yelling and
screams.
For an hour the Chinese struggled and thrashed about desperately until there were few sounds
coming from the group.
From evening until dawn the Japanese bayoneted the bodies one by one.
And that seemed to place over and over again because what they did is they indicated
and then in that order if you missed it they separated the group.
So they had them captured inside the city and then they took them in small units of 30, 40
Chinese soldiers tied their hands and said, we're going to transport you and they did this
all over the city at the same time coordinated and then took them out to different places
outside the city and killed them.
But it wasn't only the soldiers that they did this to.
Back to the book after the soldiers surrendered on mass there was virtually no one left
to protect the citizens of the city.
Knowing this the Japanese poured into Nanking on December 13th, 1937, occupying government
buildings, banks and warehouses shooting people randomly in the streets many of them
in the back as they ran away.
Using machine guns, revolvers and rifles the Japanese fired at the crowds of wounded
soldiers elderly women and children who gathered in the north and central roads and nearby
alleys.
They also killed Chinese civilians in every section of the city.
Tiny lanes, major boulevard, mud dugouts, government buildings, city squares.
As victims toppled to the ground, moaning and screaming the streets alleys and ditches
of the fallen capital, ran rivers of blood, much of it coming from people barely alive
with no strength left to run away.
The Japanese systematically killed the city dwellers as they conducted house to house
searches for Chinese soldiers in Nanking.
But they also massacred the Chinese and nearby suburbs and countryside.
Corpse is piled up outside the city walls along the river by ponds and lakes and on
hills and mountains.
In villages near Nanking the Japanese shot down any young man who passed under the presumption
that he was likely to be a former Chinese soldier.
But they also murdered people who could not possibly be Chinese soldiers elderly men
and women for instance, if they hesitated or even if they failed to understand orders,
which would deliver the Japanese language.
Obviously, not every Chinese person spoke Japanese.
So this is now just a full-on killing spree.
And I'm going to read a section here.
There was military war correspondence.
That were there from the Japanese military.
And I will read this one is from a military war correspondent named Yukiyo Omata.
And he saw the Chinese prisoners being brought and lined up along the river.
Back to the book, those in the first row were beheaded.
Those in the second row were forced to dump the severed bodies into the river before they
themselves were beheaded.
The killing went on nonstop for mourning until night, but they were only able to kill
2,000 persons in this way.
The next day tired of killing in this fashion, they set up machine guns.
Through them raked across fire at the lined-up prisoners, rat-tatt-tatt.
Triggers were pulled.
The prisoners fled into the water, but no one was able to make it to the other shore.
This systematic murder of everyone is basically what we're dealing with.
And when they got their momentum going on the extermination of most of the men, they turned
their attention to the women.
To the book, women suffered the most.
Taka-Koro-Kozu, a former soldier in the 114th Division of the Japanese Army in Nanking,
recalled.
No matter how young or old they all could not escape the fate of being raped.
We sent out cold trucks to the city streets and villages to seize a lot of women.
And then each of them was allocated to 15 to 20 soldiers for sexual intercourse and abuse.
Surviving Japanese veterans claim that the army had officially outlawed rape of enemy
women.
But rape remained so deeply embedded in Japanese military culture and superstition that no one
took the rule seriously.
They believed that raping virgins would make them more powerful in battle.
Soldiers were even known to wear amulets, made from the pubic hair of such victims, believing
that they possessed magical powers against injury.
The military policy forbidding rape only encouraged soldiers to kill their victims afterwards.
Having an interview for the documentary in the name of the emperor, as you must shiro,
a former Japanese soldier spoke candidly about the process of rape and murder in Nanking.
We took turns raping them.
It would be alright if we only rape them.
I shouldn't say alright, but we always stabbed and killed them because dead bodies don't
talk.
Back a coro-koso shared asumas bluntness and discussing the issue.
After raping, we would also kill them.
He recalled, these women would start to flee once we let them go.
Then we would bang, shoot them in the back and finish them up.
According to surviving veterans, many of the soldiers felt remarkably little guilt about
this.
Perhaps when we were raping her, we looked at her as a woman, a zoomerote.
But when we killed her, we just thought of her as something like a pig.
So where is this mindset comes from that permits this kind of behavior?
I'm going to the book.
The Japanese soldier was not simply hardened for battle in China.
He was hardened for the task of murdering Chinese combatants and non-combatants alike.
Indeed, various games and exercises were set up by the Japanese military to nomads men to
the human instinct against killing people who are not attacking.
For example, on the way to the capital, Japanese soldiers were made to participate in killing
competitions, which were avidly covered by the Japanese media like sporting events.
The most notorious one appeared in the December 7th issue of the Japan advisor under the
headline, sub-lutenants race to fell 100 Chinese running close contest.
Sub-lutenant Mukaay Toshiyaki and sub-lutenant Noda Takishi.
They were in a contest, friendly contest to see which one of them will first fell 100 Chinese
individuals' individual's sword combat.
Before the Japanese forces completely occupied Nanking, they're well in the final phase
of their race running almost neck to neck.
On Sunday, December 5th, the score, according to Asahi, was sub-lutenant Mukaay 89 and
sub-lutenant Noda 78.
Just to give some more context on this, these were just lining people up and chopping their
heads off.
That's what this was.
This is lining up civilians and let's see who can get to 150 or 100 first.
Back to the book a week later, the paper reported that neither man could decide who had
passed the 100 mark first, so they up the goal to 150.
Mukaay's blade was slightly damaged in the competition that Japan advisor reported.
He explained that this was the result of cutting a Chinese in half, helmet and all.
The contest was fun.
He declared.
Another Japanese soldier talking about his experience, Tommy Nagashozo wrote, we made them
like this.
Good sons, good daddies, good elder brothers at home were brought to the front to kill
each other.
Human beings turned into murdering demons.
Everyone became a demon within three months.
In interview, after interview, Japanese veterans from the Nanking Massacre reported honestly
that they experienced a complete lack of remorse or sense of wrongdoing even when torturing
helpless civilians.
Nagatomi Hakuto spoke candidly about his emotions in the fallen capital.
I remember being driven in a truck along a path that had been cleared through piles of
thousands and thousands of slaughtered bodies.
Wild dogs were gnawing at the dead flesh as we stopped and pulled a group of Chinese
prisoners out of the back.
Then the Japanese officer proposed a test of my courage.
He unsheathed his sword, spat on it, and with a sudden mighty swing he brought it down on
the neck of a Chinese boy cowering before us.
The head was cut clean off and tumbled away on the group as the body slumped forward.
Blood spurting out into great gushing fountains from the neck.
The officer suggested I take the head home as a souvenir.
I remember smiling proudly as I took his sword and began killing people.
Few know that soldiers in pailed babies on bayonets and tossed them still alive into pots of
boiling water.
The gang raped women from ages of 12 to 80 and then killed them when they could no longer
satisfy sexual requirements.
I beheaded people, starve them to death, burn them and bury them alive over 200 in
all.
It is terrible that I could turn into an animal and do these things.
There are really no words to explain what I was doing.
I was truly a devil.
And on those situations torture was also completely common.
And here's what the book says.
The torture that the Japanese inflicted upon the native population at Nanking almost suppresses
suppresses the limits of human comprehension here are only a few examples.
Five burials, the Japanese directed burial operations with the precision and efficiency
of an assembly line.
Soldiers would force one group of Chinese captives to dig a grave, a second group to bury
the first and then a third group to bury the second and so on.
Some victims were partially buried to their chest or necks so that they would endure
further agony such as being hacked to pieces by swords or run over by horses and tanks.
The Japanese not only disemboweled, decapatated and dismembered victims but performed
more excruciating varieties of torture.
Throughout the city they nailed prisoners to wooden boards and ran over them with tanks,
crucified them to trees and electrical posts, carved long strips of flesh from them and
used them for bayonet practice.
At least 100 men reportedly had their eyes gouged out and their noses and ears hacked
off before being set on fire.
Another group of 200 Chinese soldiers and civilians were stripped naked tied to columns
and doors of a school and then stabbed by special needles with handles on them in hundreds
of points along their bodies including their mouths, throats and eyes.
Death by fire.
The Japanese subjected large crowds of victims to mass incineration.
A Japanese soldier bound Chinese captives together ten at a time and pushed them into a
pit where they were sprayed with gasoline and ignited.
On taping road, the Japanese ordered a large number of shop clerks to extinguish a fire
then bound them together with rope and threw them into the blaze.
Japanese soldiers even devised games with fire.
One method of entertainment was to drive mobs of Chinese to the top stories or roofs
of buildings tear down the stairs and then set the bottom floors on fire.
Many such victims committed suicide by jumping out of windows or off-roop tops.
Another form of amusement involved dousing victims in fuel, shooting them and watching
them explode into flame.
In one infamous incident, Japanese soldiers forced hundreds of men, women and children into
a square soaked them with gasoline and then fired on them with machine guns.
Death by ice.
Thousands of victims were intentionally frozen to death during the rape of Nanking.
For instance, Japanese soldiers forced hundreds of Chinese prisoners to march the edge of
a frozen pond where they were ordered to strip naked, break the ice and plunge in the
water to go fishing.
Their bodies hardened into floating targets that were immediately riddled with Japanese bullets.
In another incident, the Japanese tied up a group of refugees flung them into a shallow
pond and bombarding them with hang grenades causing an explosive shower of blood and flesh.
By dogs, one diabolical means of torture was to bury victims to their waste and watch
them get ripped apart by German shepherds.
Witnesses saw Japanese soldiers strip a victim naked and direct German shepherds to bite
sensitive areas of his body.
The dogs not only ripped open his belly but jerked out his intestines along the ground
for a distance.
The incidents mentioned above are only a fraction of the methods that the Japanese use to
torment their victims.
The Japanese saturated victims in acid and pale babies with bayonets hung people by their tongues.
One Japanese reporter who later investigated the rape of Nanking learned that at least
one Japanese soldier tore the heart and liver out of a Chinese victim to eat them.
In genitals apparently were consumed, a Chinese soldier who escaped from Japanese custody
saw several dead people in the streets with their penises cut off.
He was later told that the penises were sold to Japanese customers who believed that eating
them would increase fertility.
With regards to the fate of the women, they don't know how to determine the exact number
of the women that were raped in Nanking.
But they do know that it was almost a universal.
Back to the book, the Japanese raped Nanking Women from all classes.
Farmwives, students, teachers, white collar and blue collar workers, wives of YMCA employees,
university professors, even Buddhist nuns, some of whom were gang-raped to death.
And they were systematic in their recruitment of women.
And Nanking, Japanese soldiers searched for them constantly as they looted homes and dragged
men off-wrecks execution.
Some actually conducted door-to-door searches demanding money and young girls.
Chinese women were raped in all locations and at all hours.
An estimated one-third of all rapes occurred during the day.
Survivors even remember soldiers prying open in the legs of victims to rape them and broad
daylight in the middle of the street and in front of crowds of witnesses.
No place was too sacred for rape.
The Japanese attacked women in nunneries, churches, and Bible training schools.
17 soldiers raped one woman in succession in a seminary compound.
Old age was no concern to the Japanese.
Matrix, grandmothers and great-grandmothers and dirt-repeded sexual assaults.
So Japanese soldiers who raped a woman of 60 was ordered to clean the penis by her mouth.
When a woman of 62 protested the soldiers that was she was too old for sex, they rammed
a stick up and stied her instead.
Many women in their 80s were raped to death and at least one woman in that age group was
shot and killed because she refused to Japanese soldiers' advances.
If the Japanese treatment of old women was terrible, their treatment of young children was
unthinkable.
Little girls were raped so brutally that some could not walk for weeks afterwards.
Many required surgery others died.
Chinese witnesses saw Japanese rape girls under 10 years of age in the streets and then
slashed them in half by sword.
In some cases the Japanese sliced open the vaginas of pre-teen girls in order to ravish
them more effectively.
Even in advanced stages of pregnancy did not render women immune to assault.
The Japanese violated many who were about to go into labor were in labor or who had given
birth only a few days earlier.
One victim who his nine months pregnant was raped suffered not only still birth but a complete
mental collapse.
At least one pregnant woman was kicked to death.
Still more gruesome was the treatment a lot of the some of the unborn children of these
women.
After gang rape, Japanese soldiers sometimes slashed open the bellies of pregnant women ripped
out the fetuses for amusement.
During the mass rape the Japanese destroyed children and infants often because they were
in the way.
I witnessed his report.
Described children and babies suffocating from clothes stuffed in their mouths or bayonet
into death because they whept as their mothers were being raped.
American and European observers of the rape of Nanking recorded numerous entries like this
one.
February 3rd about 5 p.m. at Chang Su's saying three soldiers came and forced a woman
to throw away her baby after raping her.
They went away laughing.
Perhaps one of the most brutal forms of Japanese entertainment was the impalement of vaginas.
In the streets of Nanking corpses of women lay with their legs, split open, their orifice
pierced by wooden rods, twigs and weeds.
It is painful, almost mind-numbing to contemplate some of the other objects that were used
to torment the Nanking women who suffered almost unendurable or deals.
For instance one Japanese soldier who raped a young woman for us to beer bottle into her
and shatter.
The rape victim was found with a golf stick rammed into her.
On December 22nd, in a neighborhood near the gate of Tonging Men, the Japanese raped a
barber's wife and then stuck a firecracker in her vagina.
It blew up and killed her.
Not all the victims were women.
Japanese men were often sawdomized or forced to perform a variety of repulsive sexual acts
in front of laughing Chinese soldiers or Japanese soldiers.
At least one Chinese man was murdered because he refused to commit necrophilia with the
corpse of a woman in the snow.
The Japanese also delighted in trying to cause men who had taken lifetime vows of celibacy
to engage in sexual intercourse.
The Chinese woman had tried to disguise herself as a man trying to pass through the gates
of Nanking but Japanese guards who systematically searched all passing pedestrians by
groping at their crutches, discovered her true sex.
Gang raped followed at which time a Buddhist monk had the misfortune to venture near the
scene.
The Japanese tried to force him to have sex to the woman they had just raped.
In the monk protested, they castrated him, causing the poor man to bleed to death.
Some of the most sorted instances of sexual torture involved the degradation of entire families.
The Japanese drew sadistic pleasure in forcing Chinese men to commit incest, fathers
to rape their own daughters, brothers, their sisters, sons, their mothers.
A Chinese battalion commander stranded in Nanking for three months after the city fell,
saw her heard of at least four or five instances in which the Japanese ordered sons to
rape their mothers.
Those who refused were killed on the spot.
As reported, substantiated by the testimony of a German diplomat who reported that one
Chinese man who refused to rape his own mother was killed with saber strokes and that
his mother committed suicide shortly thereafter.
Those who defied the Japanese were often found later with their eyes torn out their
noses, ears, and breasts cut off.
As I said, this is purieval.
And I don't know what else to say.
Now I'm going to the book here.
It's hard to talk about a bright spot in the horror that is the rape of Nanking, but if one
can, it is surely to shine a light on the actions of a small band of Americans and Europeans
who risked their lives to defy the Japanese invaders and rescue hundreds of thousands of
Chinese refugees from almost certain extermination.
The courageous men and women created the International Committee for the Nanking Safety Zone.
So this is amongst obviously this just most sadistic and heinous evil.
There were some Americans and some Europeans that lived and worked in Nanking.
You got to remember this is 1937, so it wasn't a world war yet.
There was Germans, there in Nanking, there was Americans, there in Nanking.
So when this started to happen, there was several of them who basically formed an area,
which I did, you know, this is a safe zone.
And one of them interestingly was a German and it was a Nazi.
So there's a Nazi who they ended up calling the living Buddha of Nanking.
And so this individual John Rae was, he risked his life to set up the safety zone and
actually, you know, he was like I said, he was a Nazi, but he had spent so much time
in Nanking that he had all these Chinese friends and you know, according to the background
on him, you know, he's there in 19, he's been there for many years and I don't know what
you got there, but he's not familiar with what's going on with the actual Nazi party
back in Germany.
He's disconnected.
I mean, there's, you know, this is whatever, there's no internet.
He's not watching TV, he doesn't know what's going on.
So he was just sort of sort of there and oh, the prominent party in Germany is the Nazi
party.
Oh, and I'm a diplomat, so I guess I'm a Nazi.
And, but when he, you know, he sounded like he was a guy that was a benevolent guy.
He actually went out into town and literally stopped rapes from happening himself.
And what's interesting is, and this, this, to me, set up that, you could see what they
thought of the Chinese people is that all he would do is go out and speak stop.
And he, he had the Nazi armband or what he had Nazi either, the swastika.
And when they saw that, they would listen to him.
And so I mean, he's so like he was a white guy and they, they clearly listened to him
and were kind of afraid of him. And yet, you know, obviously they had zero, less than zero,
respect for the Chinese people. And so, so he actually wrote a letter as well to Hitler,
explaining what was going on. And, you know, there's no one knows if Hitler actually ever
read it. It sounds like he read it and ignored it. But one of the most interesting and
important pieces of what John Rae did is he, he kept the journal, a detailed journal of what
had happened. So a lot of the stuff that I just quoted, which I know is, is horrible. He was
the guy. He's one of the people that wrote it down and made sure that that was going to
be recorded. And actually the, the, that diary didn't get really discovered and uncovered
until much later, until really, and, and, and Iris Chang is the one that sort of popularized
and took this journal and made it into a real document that explained what had happened there.
So that's, you know, again, this, this John Rae, you know, let's, let's, let's even in all
that darkness. There was people that stepped up and spoke against it. Another one was a guy named
by the name of Robert Wilson and he was actually grew up in Nan King and he was a Methodist missionary.
But he had then left Nan King and gone back to America. He went to Princeton and then he went
to Harvard Medical School and when he got done with all of his schooling. Instead of staying in
America, he went back to Nan King to become a surgeon in Nan King and he was him along with John Rae,
these were the guys that went out and set up this protective zone and did all kinds of, you know,
it's sort of like a Schindler's list scenario. They were helping soldiers get rid of their papers
and given clothes. They didn't look like Chinese soldiers. It's sheltering women, bringing, setting up
places where the women could hide in the addicts of the buildings. That's what they were doing.
And it's the only thing that's, well, I guess not different, but, you know,
it's different in the fact that they could get away with it because we weren't at war with the Japanese.
And so this guy Wilson was a surgeon. So not only was he trying to protect people,
he was doing surgery on them all the time trying to get them to, trying to save them from these
devastating wounds that they had. He also kept a really detailed diary, which again, these,
and this is, you know, part of a whole kind of genesis of this book is that, and I'll get to this later,
but, you know, you've heard of like Holocaust deniers of the Holocaust and happened to well,
it's the same thing with this event. People say, oh, and it wasn't that bad. You know,
wasn't that big of a deal that we know, there was some killing. So there was people that said that,
you know, some Japanese nationalists had said, oh, that didn't really wasn't really that bad. It was
provoked or whatever they're going to say. And these documents, these, these documents that
corroborated all this information were truly important. Going back to the book here, one of the
worst scenes, Nilsen's song, Nett Wilson saw Nann King, a scene he would remember for the rest of his life,
a massive gang of, a massive gang rape of teenage girls in the street, a group of young women
between the ages of 15 and 18 were lined up by Japanese and then raped in the dirt one after the
other by an entire regiment. Some hebronched and died while others killed themselves shortly afterwards.
But the scenes in the hospitals were even more horrifying than those in the streets. Wilson was
mortified by the women who came to the emergency room with their bellies ripped open by the
charred and horribly disfingered men, whom the Japanese tried to burn alive and by numerous other
horrors he had barely had time to describe on paper. He told his wife that he would never
forget a woman whose head was nearly cut off teetering from a point on her neck. The morning
came this morning, this is quote, this morning another woman came in a sad plate and with a terrible
story, a hospital volunteer wrote of this woman in his diary in January 3rd, 1938. She was one of
the five women whom the Japanese soldier had taken to one of their medical units to wash their clothes
to buy day and be raped by night. Two of them were forced, the two of them were forced to
satisfy from 15 to 20 men and the prettiest one as much as 40 each night.
This one who came to us had been called off by three soldiers into an isolated place where they
attempted to cut off her head. The muscles of the neck had been cut but they failed this
sever the spinal cord. She fained death but dragged herself to the hospital another
of the many to bear witness to the brutality of the soldiers.
So Wilson just saw complete horrors then back to the book he operated for free because
few patients had money to pay him but the surgeries exacted a terrible price on his own health.
In the end his family believes that the only his faith as a devout Methodist combined with
his love for China gave him the courage to survive the rape of Nanking. Another one of these
Europeans in this case, American, Westerner, I should say, was Ville Helmina Votron or many
Votron as they called her as biocupation, head of the education department, Dean of studies at
Ginnling Women's Arts and Science College was one of the few Western women in the city during the
first few weeks of the Nanking massacre. Years later she would be remembered not only for her
courage in protecting thousands of women from Japanese soldier but also for the diary she kept.
A diary that some historians believe will eventually be recognized much like the diary of Anne Frank
for its importance in illuminating the spirit of a single witness during the Holocaust of war.
Votron, the daughter of a blacksmith was 51 years old in 1937 raised in the tiny farming community
of Sector, Illinois. She went to live with neighbors when her mother died. Despite the
impoverishment of her childhood, she was able to work her way through school, graduating with
honors in 1912 from the University of Illinois at Urbana, Champagne.
So, just again, a Westerner in this case in American, and she had the opportunity to
maybe escape but she stayed in Nanking. Back to the book with most of the faculty gone from
Nanking, most of the abandoned their homes to flee to cities like Shanghai, Shenku, and Sichuan.
Votron was now the acting head of the institution. She labored to prepare for the campus for female
refugees and to evacuate wounded soldiers from the area. To disguise their identity, she burned
their military papers and garments in the college and senator. Under her direction furniture
was moved into addicts, safes were emptied, dorms were cleaned. And valuables were wrapped
in oil paper and hidden. Meanwhile, posters, signs and arm bands for the Nanking Safety Zone
were created and distributed among the volunteers.
Here's talking about a specific day. The following day, December 17, 1937 was even worse.
The migration of women into gingling only intensified as the Japanese soldiers flooded the city.
What a heartbreaking sight, Votron wrote. Weary women frightened girls trudging with children and
bedding and small packages of clothes. They found someone had time to write the story of each
refugee who came in, she thought, especially the stories of the girls who had blackened their faces
and cut their hair. As she accommodated the stream of wild, eyed women, she heard stories of
Japanese raping girls as young as 12, and women as elderly as 60, or raping pregnant women
had been at point. And the sick and depraved and disgusting and horrific stories go on and on
and on and the brutality page after page after page of diary entries and quotes and witness accounts.
And then pictures. There is pictures in the book. The pictures of severed heads and
Chinese bound to polls being bayoneted to death and pictures of others being beheaded and
pictures of giant pits filled with bodies and images of hundreds and hundreds of bodies and
entangled masses on the banks of the gangs you river. It's too much for the mind to comprehend.
It really is. It's almost too much to understand. And so what we do is we package it all up.
Right. And we give it a name, a massacre or an atrocity.
And I'm sure you could tell. I mean even as I'm sitting here reading this, I'm gone. I'm just numb.
But we have to remember that every one of those people
tortured, raped and killed was a person. A person like your brother or like your sister or
like your mom or like your dad or a person like your son or your daughter. A person like you.
And maybe you can get a hold of that. But what's in some ways even harder grasp is the Japanese soldiers.
And they were people. And yes, they were certainly monsters,
vile and despicable and completely devoid of feelings. But even so even though they were monsters,
they were human monsters. And they too had mothers and fathers and sons and daughters. And yet they did this.
And the fact that what happened at Nanking was so brutal and so beyond comparison with anything that
ever happened was one of the things that almost caused it to be forgotten. And that that
supreme level of brutality lasted about six weeks. And eventually that morphed into an
occupation of Nanking by the Japanese. And they ruled with an iron fist, of course. And they stole
and they plunged and they abused locals and they continued to rape. It's they actually institutionalized
and eventually became even to term comfort women. And they gave out
so, opium freely to and save people. Just like happens in this day and age, people become slaves to drugs.
And it stayed in that occupied state for about eight years until
finally almost as quickly as it began. He ended. I'm going back to the book.
The end of Nanking's ordeal came in the last, came at last in the summer of 1945.
On August 6, 1945, the United States dropped an untested uranium bomb on Hiroshima,
Japan's eighth largest city killing 100,000 of its 245 people, 245,000 people on the first day.
When a Japanese surrender was not forthcoming, the Americans dropped on August 9, a second
plutonium type bomb on the Japanese city of Nagasaki.
Less than a week later, on August 14, the Japanese made the final decision to surrender.
The Japanese remained in the former capital of China until the day of the surrender,
then quickly left the city. I witnessed his reported that Japanese soldiers could be seen drinking
heavily or weeping in the streets, some heard rumors of unarmed Japanese men being forced to
kneel by the side of the road to be beaten by local residents. Retaliation against the Japanese
garrison appears to be to have been limited, however, because many residents hid at home during
this chaotic time too fearful to even celebrate the news of a Japanese defeat.
The evacuation was swift and there was no mass persecution or imprisonment of Japanese soldiers.
One Nanking resident recalls that she stayed in her house for weeks after the Japanese surrendered
and when she reemerged, they were gone.
It was over. There were some level of war crime trials and there were some executions.
Mainly of the highest profile officers, Prince Asaka, who had given that order to kill all
captives, he avoided prosecution. The scale of the massacre was downplayed. There was a bunch
of reasons of why the scale of the rape of Nanking got downplayed. One of them being at the
now Chinese Communist State was actually trying to build relationships with the post-war Japan.
The massacre was quietly buried and now you had the Chinese people were now in a communist state.
There wasn't much speaking out to do. The Japanese downplayed the horrors as saying it was just another
incident of war. Some Japanese officials were quoted as saying it's a story made up by the
Chinese. It's the image of Japan but it was a lie. They said things like, I think the Nanking
Maskers are lie. The women that were raped were labeled as comfort women and licensed prostitutes
and many Japanese officials say that what happened in Nanking was just a part of war.
There's a really clear example of downplaying not only the rape of Nanking but of the war in
general and they put this some of this in the book. They're talking about the Japanese
education system. Here we go. Back to the book, the Japanese, the entire Japanese education
system suffers from selective amnesia. For not until 1994, where Japanese schoolchildren taught
that here, Hito's army was responsible for the death of at least 20 million allied soldiers in
Asian civilians during World War II. In the early 1990s and newspaper article quoted a Japanese
high school teacher who claimed that his students were surprised to learn that Japan had been at
war with the United States. The first thing they wanted to know was who had won. In 1997,
a 1977 the Ministry of Education reduced a section on World War II within a standard history book
of several hundred pages to only six pages, which consisted mainly of pictures of American fire
bombing of Tokyo, a picture of the ruins of Hiroshima and a tally of Japan's war dead.
The text neglected to mention the casualties on the other side. Japanese war atrocities or the
forced evacuations of Chinese and Korean prisoners to labor camps in Japan.
Much of the censorship might have gone on challenge had it not been for the efforts of one brave
crusader. In 1965, the Japanese historian, Anega Saburo sued the Japanese government.
This lawsuit was the beginning of a legal battle that would span three decades in gain the
backing of thousands of sympathetic Japanese followers.
The Ministry interfered with Anega's attempts to document the Nanking massacre for school children.
For example, in his textbook manuscript, Anega wrote,
he wrote this quote, immediately after the occupation of Nanking, the Japanese army killed
numerous Chinese soldiers and citizens. This incident became known as the Nan King massacre.
When his book got checked by the examiner, the examiner commented, quote,
readers might interpret this description as meeting, meaning that the Japanese army
unilaterally massacreed Chinese immediately after the occupation. This passage should be revised
that it is not interpreted in such a way. And here's what the passage eventually got changed to.
While battling the fierce resistance of the Chinese armed forces, the Japanese occupied
Nanking and killed numerous Chinese soldiers and civilians, this incident came to be known as the
Nan King massacre. That statement end quote, that statement might have been satisfied.
That statement might have satisfied textbook sensors as a compromise between Anega's argument
and the Ministry's position on the massacre. Unfortunately, the statement is simply not true
because it implies that the massacre occurred in the heat of battle.
Continuing on, the examiner demanded that Anega deletes his description of the rape itself,
claiming that the violation of women is something that has happened on every battle field in
every era of human history. This is not an issue that needs to be taken up with respect to the
Japanese army in particular. Even the word aggression was deemed taboo. A aggression, the
censors wrote, is a term that contains negative ethical connotations. And that spirit that you can
see very clearly that spirit of the Niali carried on, which is why when this book came out, this book,
the rape of Nan King, when it came out, there were still Japanese nationalists that were
staunchly against it. But Iris Chang who researched independently and wrote with passion,
and she gave it all. She was a daughter of Chinese American immigrants and her parents,
by the way, had connections to Nan King and escaped there. Both her parents had made it to America
and become college professors, and Iris was compelled to tell this story. But like I said in the
beginning, she was so close to this story that it took a toll of its own. And she was a writer,
obviously, she got her batches degree in journalism, and eventually a master's in writing
from Johns Hopkins University, and there's actually a book that's written about Iris.
And the book is written by Iris's mother. Whose name is Dr. Ying Ying Chang, and the book is
called the woman who could not forget. And I'm going to bring you through some portions of this
book. So this book again, this is about Iris Chang, and it's written by her mother.
This is how she got, is how she decided she was going to write about this.
Here we go, quote, although Iris talked to us about her many book ideas for her next book,
whilst he was writing our first book, her decision to write the rape of Nan King came all the sudden
December 1994. As Iris told us, and as described in the book, she made her
reminder right about this most atrocious chapter of history when she was attending a conference in
California on December 13th, 1994. At the conference, there was a photo exhibition of the war
of the war crimes committed in China in the 1930s, taking when the Japanese Army invaded Chinese
territory. Iris wrote in her book. The light heard so much about the Nan King massacre as a child,
nothing prepared me for these pictures. Stark black and white images of decapatated heads,
Bellies ripped open a nude woman forced by their rapists into various pornographic poses,
their faces contorted into unforgettable expressions of agony and shame.
And she continued, in a single blinding moment, I recognized the fragility of not just life,
but the human experience itself. Later, she told us in a telephone update that she simply must
write about the rape of Nan King for her next book. It was a moral obligation and it would be
justice for the victims as well. In 1998, after the rape of Nan King had been published,
one Japanese reporter interviewed Iris and asked her, why did you decide to write this book?
Iris replied, when I was a little girl, my parents shocked me with the story of the rape of
Nan King. They told me that the Japanese imperial army massacred thousands of civilians in the
capital of China and butchered even small children. This left the powerful impression on me,
and I went to local libraries to learn more details, but I couldn't find a shred of information
on the subject. There was nothing in my local school libraries or public city libraries
or in my world history textbooks. Still worse, my teachers were completely ignorant of this event.
The event remained a question mark in my mind for years until I saw an exhibit of photographs
on the subject in 1994. The horror of those photographs inspired me to write the book.
So that's how Iris got involved in writing the book. As a writer, luckily she was also a
prolific letterwriter. I'm going to quote a bunch of her letters because her mother saved a bunch of
her letters. Here is one that describes, I think it's a good insight into what her personality was like,
when she was actually writing the book. This was a letter to her mom about what she was doing on
the day-to-day basis. As she's writing this book, and this was her second book. So she'd already written
one book. It had done okay, but this one was her, you know, her current project and here's what she said about it.
Quote, on a typical day, I would rise between seven or eight a.m. and take the bus to silver
spring metro station. Fortunately, there was a bus stop directly across from Lee's house.
The trip to the National Archives took about 45 minutes on public transportation, and the building
was opened by 8.45 a.m. I spent my mornings in the military reference branch of the archives
on the 13th floor, looking through finding aids and filling out cards to request boxes from different
collections of papers. Dozens of boxes would be pulled from the shelves, placed on cards and made
available to me in the second floor reading room, which stayed open until 9 p.m. on Tuesdays,
Thursdays, and Fridays. I was usually there in the afternoon and evenings scanning documents,
tagging the ones that pertained into the Nanking Masterker, and zero-oxing them as quickly as possible.
So she's digging deep into this book, doing massive amount of research, and, you know,
research back then was infinitely harder than it is now, because we have the internet.
Now, as she began, she assembled all this information, and she was starting to speak about it,
starting to write some articles about it before the book came out, and she was interviewed
by the San Jose Mercury News, which was a big newspaper up in the South Bay area of, you know,
the South Bay San Francisco, and when she got done with that interview, she started getting a little
bit of recognition. So here's a letter to her mom. Dear mom, here's the latest exciting news.
I shall be the Master of Ceremony's for what I believe will be the biggest rape of Nanking
Conference ever. The event will take place at Stanford University. During the first weekend of
December, hundreds of people from more than 50 activists or organizations all over the globe will
be there, as well as representatives from all major news, media, organizations of California,
China, and Japan. The goal of the three-day affairs to discuss legal strategy, how can we see
seek reparations for the victims through international law and UN resolutions? How can we gather evidence
of atrocity for atrocities for lawsuits? What methods should we use to force the Japanese
to accept responsibility for its past misdeeds? So, she's in the game. She's getting after it.
She's starting to get some leadership positions in here, and starting to get some recognition.
Now, as she continues to work, here's another letter to her mom, Dear mom. Thank you for your
inspirational email. I've been working on my book all week and feel more confident about my material.
The sections of the book are so short that I organize each chapter as I would a speech.
Thinking of the chapters as speeches forces me to distill each idea into a tiny, hard gem.
Lately, I've been reading so many of the world's classic speeches for inspiration.
They are breathtaking in their power and so much more pungent than prose. In the evenings,
when I read the speeches of Napoleon or Clarence Darrell or Winston Churchill,
I feel engaged in actual conversation with them. Words are the only way to preserve the essence
of a soul. What excites me about speeches is that even after the speakers are dead and buried,
their spirit lives on. To me, this is true religion, the best form of life after death.
This is the first time I've ever devoted much attention to speeches. My previous reading
had only consisted mainly of essays, plays, novels and poetry. Love, Iris. So it's pretty cool that
you, first of all, I love that letter because she's recognizing the power of speech and she's
realizing that what she's doing as an author is that's her, that's her, that's her mark that she's
going to leave on the world. And it's very interesting that Ying Ying Chang is also an academic.
She's obviously a really smart person and they're able to have these sort of intellectual conversations
and letters and they're all a really good insight into what Iris is mind. What was going
through Iris's mind as she did this. Now, the book comes out. It doesn't like jump out of the gates,
but as it comes out, there's a little bit of a controversy about it and it's going to start
to be some articles about it and some interviews and she's getting some interviews and the book
starts to get some good traction. Back to the book, on January 14th, she flew to Washington for a TV
interview with PBS. At the San Francisco Airport, she left a telephone message for us and said that
she got an call from her publisher and that her book was number 15 on the New York Times best sellers
list. Her voice told us she was weeping. I'm sure they were tears of joy.
Shou Jen, which is the dad and I were jubilant. We could not contain our excitement for many days.
In the next phone call, we said, Iris, you've made it. So, book hits the New York Times best
seller. That's the game changer for Iris back to the book. On January 28th, Iris called us with
excitement and said that Laurel Cook, her publicist and Jack McEwen of the CEO, had called her
in the afternoon to tell her that her book was up to number 11 on the New York Times list.
Her high-esspot yet, only two weeks after first making the list. When they called,
she could hear wild cheering, whistling and clapping in the background. She was overjoyed.
So, it's like the big thing is as a writer to make the New York Times list and her parents
understand that too because they're academics and they're super stoked for Iris.
Now, with the success starts to come some stress and that starts to reveal itself.
Here's another letter that she wrote. Dear mom, I'm sorry that I sounded so rushed when
you called me at Mirion's home. Sometimes I wonder if I've offended a lot of old friends in the last
few months by not returning emails, phone calls and letters. Perhaps many people believe I've been
corrupted already. It's true that I've neglected my loved ones for the last few months. I feel
ashamed that I haven't yet brought you a mother's day gift or even a card. Only this note that I'm
hastily writing for my laptop computer perched up on a bed and Diana Zekerman's house.
How I wish you could have been there during the woman of the year ceremony. I told you,
I told the audience how you inspired me over the years, how you served as my first role model.
So, you've got another big award, a woman of the year. Please forgive me. I love you dearly,
even though I haven't found the time to talk to you in the last few weeks. And in a few weeks,
well, I'll be reunited and the book tour will finally be over. I feel like a soldier returning from a
six month war. Love Iris. So, she's a person that feels guilt, you know, and the idea that she
hasn't been returned in emails and phone calls and she feels bad about it. And then I found
this interesting perhaps many people believe I've been corrupted already. So, you made it big time
and now you're blowing me off. She's feeling that pressure too. Back to the book, when Iris's
book became an international bestseller, she reads to status most writers can only dream of
she became a celebrity. But she also paid a price for it. In February 1998, after a long
book tour, she'd already told us that once she came home, she did not want to go out anymore.
All she wanted to do was stay home with Brett, that was her husband, she'd been married now
and have a good sleep. After several weeks of continuous book signings, public speeches,
and traveling, she said, her life was a nonstop blur of airport, lecture hall, hotel, airport,
lecture hall, hotel. The responses to her speeches were overwhelming, wherever she went,
people besieged her after every speech. When she came home, she inevitably came down with a
cold or a flu only to recover in time for the next book tour. She was physically exhausted.
Not only that, but during the book signings, many old Asian people came up to her, Chinese,
Korean, Filipino, Singaporean, Indian, they poured out their personal stories of suffering during
World War II in Asia to her. Some of them were wept and thanked her for profusely,
for writing such a book. They said it's so frustrating to see that Japan to this day hasn't
formally acknowledged their war crimes. They exclaimed it's about time. I was said,
all that on the one hand, she felt rewarded that she was sought out and greatly respected by many
people, but on the other hand, she was mentally and emotionally drained after hearing those stories.
On June 29, 1998, I was wrote, Dear Mom, I arrived safely in New York today after giving a
well-received speech and Baltimore to the women doctors. Actually, it was very depressing.
During the Q&A, a Pakistani doctor told the audience about the atrocities against Bengali,
women in 1971. A Filipino doctor described how she escaped the rape of Manila when she was 12,
and an Indian doctor had discussed the Indian tradition of Suti, which is the burning of widow's
alive. Others talked about the international sex slave industry, the trafficking of women and
children, female genital mutilation in Africa, you get the idea. It seemed there were endless
gruesome stories that people weren't eager to share with her. On top of her busy schedule of book
tours, outside people might not realize that besides her traveling, signings and books, and speeches,
she was constantly bararded with additional email requests from news reporters for written interviews.
Sometimes there were 10 or 15 written questions for her to answer, so the reporters could write a
news article in profile. I risked to still could find time to answer those questions accordingly.
So she's just a go-getter, right? She's not stopping regardless of what's happening.
And now, as this book is gained all this popularity, now she's starting to get some attacks as
well from, like I said, from the Japanese nationalists that are saying, oh, this didn't happen.
You're glorifying it or you're making it sound like worse than it was. And here's the letter
that you wrote, Dear Mom. Tonight I read an article about John Stomba, Stimebex life in the Lascato's
Mountain area, and learned that the reception of the grapes of wrath mirrored that of the rape of
Nanking. In a letter to a friend, Stimebex wrote, the vilification of me out here from the large landowners
and bankers is pretty bad. The latest rumors started by them that the Oki's hate me for lying
about them. So I'm frightened at the rolling might of this thing. It is completely out of hand.
I mean, the kind of hysteria about the book is growing that is not healthy.
Love Iris. So she feels the same way that she's starting to, this book is almost becoming
more powerful than she, you know, more than she can control. And here's another letter that she wrote.
A few nights ago, I leafed through Richard Rhodes autobiography, a hole in the world
after I lunch together. As you know, Rhodes was starved, beaten, and psychologically
abused as a child by his stepmother. His mother had committed suicide by shooting herself
and his father degenerated into an alcoholic, leaving him virtually incapable of protecting his family.
Every time I reread this book, I'm convinced that Richard Rhodes is lucky to be alive.
He was a genuine victim, but even his experience pales and comparison to the stories of abandoned
children in the PRC orphanages. That's people in public, China. I don't even want to get into that right now.
Delving into history into other people's stories places all our problems into perspective.
Time and again, we have to remind ourselves how extraordinarily lucky we are.
Much love, Iris.
It clearly, that's something that I talk about on the regular basis. You look at the suffering
that other people go through and it reminds you of how lucky we are not to be in those situations.
But it seemed like Iris was having a hard time maintaining that.
Positive outlook and she's keeps getting dragged down into the darkness.
This is back to the book. Hearing that peanuts cartoonists, Charles Schultz had died.
Iris was quite sentimental and wrote me a letter.
And here's the letter, quote, dear mom, I have a favorite ask you. Can you save the last
peanuts comic strip that appeared yesterday and mail it to me? I'm still reeling from the news
of Charles Schultz's death. It's the end of an era. I still remember all the hours I spent
reading peanuts books as a child. Do you recall the time we went together to a garage
stale and champagne and you brought me my first Snoopy cartoon book, a used paper back already yellow
with age? That's when I first fell in love with the peanuts comics strip. You and Dad grew up with
the peanuts cartoon as well. And Chinese newspapers and Taiwan making both of you part of the
peanuts era as well. Years later in Santa Barbara, I met Charles Schultz in person at the SB
Riders Conference. During his lecture, however, I was surprised by his demeanor, which was
bitter, gloomy and depressed almost nasty. After his lecture, I stood in a long line waiting
for Schultz to autograph a copy of his book. When I finally stood in front of him, I asked Schultz
if I could write a profile about him for the New Yorker or some other major magazine.
Why is a young person like you interested in an old man like me was his response?
At the time, I thought he was being sarcastic, but later I learned that Schultz,
like Charlie Brown, is a terribly insecure person, fundamentally convinced of his own unworthiness.
That was the last time I ever spoke. I ever saw Schultz. But last year, I had one more opportunity
to see him. To make a long story short, I didn't have time to make the long two-hour drive to Santa
Rose, and I figured I would see Schultz at the next Santa Barbara's Riders Conference.
I never expected that Schultz would pass away only a few months later.
Do you think Charles Schultz committed suicide? Don't you find it odd that he died the night before
his final strip ran in the Sunday newspaper? As you know, the peanuts ran from 1950 to 2000,
a perfect 50 years. And he died right when the strip ended. But life is seldom as neat and tidy
as a cartoon box. It's almost as if he timed his dramatic exit from this world,
achieving his final deadline. Love, Iris.
Continue gone. It seems like Iris could not get the death of Charles Schultz off her mind.
The next day she wrote, to me again about him, dear mom, I think it was Charles Schultz's
pessimism, as well as the ability to understand human failure in security, heartbreak that made
millions love peanuts. You're absolutely right, Schultz had no reason whatsoever to be depressed
after achieving wealth and fame at such an early age. But the pression is not rational.
Perhaps he did have a mental problem or some chemically induced condition, but whatever it was,
it prevented him from losing touch with the underdogs of the world. It's strange. But I still feel
avoid in my heart after Schultz's death, even though I never knew him and didn't particularly
like him after our meeting in person. It made me wonder, what is the secret to Schultz's magic appeal?
The answer, I believe, is simple. Schultz understands a heart of a loser. He capture those
moments in life when we feel utterly unloved, unwanted and alone. All of us, no matter how successful,
have felt like losers at some point in life. Love, Iris. So we start to see there's a
an indication, right? There's an indication she's sort of seeing things like depression in other
people, regardless of how successful they are at this point. She's a New York Times best seller,
woman of the year, all this other stuff. So she's successful. And yet she's recognizing how that
doesn't really mean anything and you can still be depressed. After September 11th, 2001,
she wrote this on a few days after it, she wrote this again to her mom and dad in this case.
Quote, events are unfolding faster than I can react to them. First, the WTC and Pentagon
tragedies, then the Japanese prime minister's unexpected apology to the comfort of women and now
a major court victory of a former Korean slave labor against the Japanese corporation.
This week, I tried to work on my book and recover from general exhaustion and a mild case of
the flu, but I have to admit it's hard to stay focused. I plan to do nothing more than right,
exercise and rest for the next few weeks. Love, Iris. So she's now working on her next book,
still working hard, probably working too hard, not focusing enough. And her mom, now she's got a
kid as well. And we know that adding a kid into the mix doesn't give you more free time. We can promise
you that. And she's married. Now she has a son and her mom actually started putting some
pressure on her and said, hey, you got a kid now, you got to spend maybe you're going a little
overboard with the work back to the book on October 3rd, 2003, and an email I asked Iris
whether she was putting too much emphasis on her career placing her career before her family.
She replied, that is not true. It's just that I believe that I have some power to shape my destiny
and I want Christopher. That's the son. I want Christopher to have his mother a strong,
to have in his mother a strong role model, a person who is his own individual, impervious to the
whims of others. I cannot teach Christopher to be an intellectual and a socially responsible
person, unless I demonstrate to him through my actions that I myself am such a person. I want to
teach Christopher that it is far better to be long to the critical minority than the unquestioning
majority. I want to teach him the ability to think independently to evaluate ideas and information
on his own without the official sanction of the authorities and if possible to create.
These qualities are not universally popular in our society. My tendency to stand alone apart from
the crowd has caused me a great pain and suffering throughout my life. But in the end,
I am stronger and better person because of it.
Now, she's continued on and she's continued to just kind of grind and grind and grind and
there's an incident. She's gone on a trip to Louisville, Kentucky and things start going sideways
back to the book. That night, we went to sleep and assumed that Iris would be all right. But
about 2am, California time in the early morning of Friday, August 13th, we were awakened by a phone call.
I picked the phone and it was Iris. Her voice was shaking and she told me she'd seen some
frightening pictures on the TV and her hotel room. Iris and I then had a conversation about this.
Apparently she could not fall asleep so she turned on the TV. I asked her what kind of pictures
were on the TV screen. She said it showed some horrible atrocities and ugly images of children
torn apart by wars. She said that the TV was showing something similar to scenes from hell,
like an unimaginable world war 3. She had turned off their TV, waited a while, and then
turned it on again to find the ugly images had disappeared. I responded that maybe the TV had
been showing a war movie. It's very possible I said that during the wee hours of the night TV
stations would show such a genre of horror films. Then Iris told me she did not feel
things had been quite right from the very moment she'd arrived at the hotel. The clerk at
the front desk looks suspicious to her and spoke to a person who later kept looking at the window
of her room. While Iris was still talking with me on the phone, she told me that she could still
see that person standing outside on the lawn and not far from her room. He looked at her window
and as she peered through her curtain. She told me she's specter her room was wired and that
what she had seen on TV was real and intentionally shown to threaten her. So she's getting paranoid.
She's paranoid that Japanese nationalists are coming after her and it's starting to affect her
mind. Back to the book it was past 5 a.m. in Kentucky. I asked her had she gotten any sleep at all.
She said she couldn't fall asleep and she was exhausted and had a terrible headache. She was sick
I could tell. She had to be ill because she had not been able to sleep for three or four days prior to
the trip. She also had not eaten nor she drunk any liquid for some time. She said she'd ordered
some takeout dinner that was delivered to her room but she did not have any appetite and had
eaten anything. She didn't want to drink anything either afraid that someone might poison her.
I knew that under severe sleep deprivation people could have delusions. So her parents decided they're
going to fly well she has a breakdown and they get a call saying hey something happened to Iris
you need to get out here they fly out to Louisville as soon as they get to Louisville they go to
a hospital when she gets to when they get to a hospital they go to find her and she's in the psychiatric
unit and they she sent the psychiatric unit because they hadn't found anything wrong with her
physically which you know would include in my opinion that includes like she's not dehydrated
she's not starving she's got some psychiatric issues. So back to the book in the evening the
doctor finally came in and met with us. He briefed us on Iris's condition in front of all of us.
He believed Iris had experienced a so-called brief reactive psychosis due to stress conditions
such as lack of sleep and food. He added that her condition could also be a possible onset of
bipolar disorder and recommended that Iris he had doctor for follow-up after her return home. He gave
us a reference. He also prescribed an anti-psychotic drug, respiratory, respiratory, two milligrams a day
for Iris to take for at least a year and then they they getting the cab and as she's getting the
cab she's kind of like making statements and saying strange things about what she sees billboard
she's making strange comments about them and finally they landed San Jose Airport and go back to the
book we called Michael and that's that's the son or Iris's brother we called Michael to come pick us up
while we were waiting for Michael I resed that she felt dizzy and had a headache she told me that
things seemed distorted to her and that the expressions of people around her were strange.
At that time we did not know how powerful psychiatric drugs were and thought that Iris's behavior
was strange. I later realized that while in the hospital Iris had been given heavy doses of
risk-bredal and a tranquilizer calmer down the side effects of psychiatric drugs could be severe
that explained why she felt dizzy and had a headache and distortion of a visual perception.
So she's now on these drugs she's she's taking the the the whispered raw two milligrams a day
the medicines making her super sleepy and once they're back in the bay area the mom
yinging starts looking for a you know board certified psychiatrist to bring her to and she ends up with
this guy that they called doctor B. Back to the book Iris is now seeing doctor B once a week and she
persuaded him to reduce her dosage of risk-bredal risk-bredal by half from one milligrams or from
two one milligrams from from two down to one from the very beginning Iris did not like to take
any drugs and she kept trying to reduce the dosage or stop it entirely. The rest of the family
was hoping that with the risk-bredal Iris would be less depressed but to no avail there was no difference.
So interestingly Iris is saying I don't want to take this drug you know I want to get off of it
and they're all saying look just keep taking it and eventually he describes her with another
drug which is called amplify and as soon as her back to the book as soon as Iris took the
amplify 10 milligrams she became excessively sleepy she could sleep for 12 hours or more
straight. So now she's sleeping I mean 12 hours a day bad and back to the book Iris felt that her
illness and inability to take care of Christopher was a burden to everyone something she hated.
I could see that she was very sad and felt helpless. So this continues on and finally they go
back to a meeting with Dr. B. Dr. B. Stundesol with what he said next and a very serious tone he said
he thought Iris's condition was very grave and he suggested that Iris check into a recovery facility.
He said that the facility was in in Salt Suledo near the beach it was quite ideal for mental
patients to recuperate as soon as Iris heard that she immediately showed her disapproval I could
understand her suspicion of any facility designed for so-called mental patients. She had learned
many historical instances of government persecution of political dissidents one way was to put those
dissidents into mental institutions and abused them sometimes leading to death. I did not blame her
for her suspicions she was already suspecting that evil forces were at work against her for what
she had written and done in the name of justice. Dr. B. She told Dr. B that she did not think her
mental state was that bad and that she didn't need to go to recovery facility. So they started
looking for someone else to take her to besides Dr. B and now she gets prescribed another drug
which is called Selexa and so she's on Alexa and she's on Abul Fai and back to the book at this
time, sorry, a billify. At this time Iris was already experiencing the strong side effects of
a billify. Most obvious were her lack of energy and the fact that she was drowsy all the time. In
addition when she woke up from her daily naps, she complained that her shoulders and leg joints
were sore which were new symptoms that she thought likely to have been caused by the drug. I was
worried about the side effects of a billify and voiced my concern to Dr. B. He said the dosage was
the lowest possible and that the side effects would gradually disappear. In retrospect, it appears to
us that a billify had a big impact on Iris's mental state. It was a turning point in her condition
became worse after she started taking a billify and later worse and even more with Selexa.
So now another incident takes place. She kind of disappears for a little bit. No one really knows
where she is. They call the cops to find out eventually. She calls back and she says, hey, look,
I was out. I was tired. I checked into a hotel to get some sleep. That's the story she tells.
And her mom says she sounds guilty as she's trying to tell this story. And then a few days later,
they find the sleeping pills and a bottle of vodka and they're kind of realized that she
was thinking about committing suicide but her mom says she probably is going to do a room to do
that and fell asleep. When she woke up, I guess she changed her mind. And back to the book here
on the drugs that she was taken, we now know that a billify website warns that the drug can affect
your judgment, thinking or motor skills as well as the side effects of increasing risk of suicide,
drowsiness, anxiety and muscle stiffness. And the Selexa website warns about suicide, anxiety
and self-destructive or aggressive impulses. So these drugs that you take for these problems have
side effects that sound worse than what the problem is. Then she goes on to say that the first attempt
to suicide that she made, so this the temple was when she was on 10 milligrams of a billify.
And the other thing that that mentions in these about these drugs is that when you change
prescription and when you change doses or you go on or off of them, that's when you're most vulnerable.
And so that suicide attempt was in line with one of those changes.
So they go back to, now they're with another doctor, doctor who they call doctor C.
Going back to the book, I restopped taking Selexa on October 7th after the support group meeting.
She told Dr. Sele on the phone that she would discontinue seeing him if he insisted on
her taking the medicine. As a compromised doctor C persuaded her to continue seeing him and then
he would decide whether she could gradually decrease the dosage of whispered all which she was still
on. All of us told Iris that both the medication and the psychotherapy sessions were needed
for rapid recovery. If she didn't want to take the medication, then at least she should have
psychotherapy sessions with the doctor. She agreed to continue seeing Dr. C looking back at what
ended up happening. It was so ironic. Iris was the one who did not want to take the medication
whereas the rest of the family believed in doctors and thought the medication would help her.
Continuing on, the morning of Thursday, October 21st when I went to Selexa,
she was very unhappy and complained that I was following her too closely.
I found she had not eaten well the night before, so I suggested going out for lunch.
We drove to nearby restaurant. In the parking lot when she stopped the car, she sat there and told
me without any expression that she wanted to cry but had no tears. Her face was greenish and
an horrible depressed state. At this time, she had already mentioned that she did not want to live
anymore. I also noticed that her arm and leg movements and facial expressions were rigid
and it seemed even worse that she wanted to cry but had no tears.
Back then, I did not suspect that all these symptoms could be the serious side effects
of the medications.
Iris began to feel hopeless. I later realized. She wanted to carry out her plan and she did not
want us to find out. In the last week of her life, she prohibited me from visiting her.
She did not even want me to call her and did not return my calls or my emails. In that final
week, Shao Jin and I took a walk ourselves to ease our worries. I went to Apollo Altus support group
on Wednesday, November 3rd. Shao Jin and I went to another support group in San Jose on Friday,
November 5th. We tried to gather information on how to deal with the pressure and loved ones who
were possibly suicidal. For all this time, she was actively planning her final exit while we tried
to find a way to rescue her. We raised against her and we did not realize that she would carry out
her plan so quickly. One week later, on November 9th, she was gone.
And here is the note that was found next to Iris' computer. Dear Brett, mom, dad, and Mike.
For the last few weeks, I have been struggling with my decision as to whether I should live or die.
As I mentioned to Brett, when you believe you have a future, you think of terms of generations
and years. When you do not, you live just by the day. You live not just by the day, but by the minute.
You don't want someone who will live out the rest of her days as a mere shell of her former self.
I had considered running away, but I will never be able to escape from myself and my thoughts.
I am doing this because I am too weak to withstand the years of pain and agony ahead.
Each breath is becoming difficult for me to take. The anxiety can be compared to drowning in an
open sea. I know that my actions will transfer some of this pain to others, indeed those who love
me the most. Please forgive me. Forgive me because I cannot forgive myself.
Love, love, Iris.
And Iris's mom closes out the book saying it was an untimely death. Over the years, Iris had
always commented that life was too short for her to finish the things she wanted to accomplish.
She said many times that she wanted to write more books to make films and record more oral histories.
It was so painful to realize that many of her dreams were not fulfilled.
Yet it is not how she died, but rather how she lived that will be her legacy.
Whenever I think of Iris, the memories of a loving daughter and a beautiful soul
will always remain with me. In her short 36 years, she had inspired many, many people in the world
with her noble spirit, her passion, dedication, sincerity, and determination.
In preserving historical truth and pursuing justice for the voiceless victims.
Iris was a woman whose heartbeat passionately for those who suffered.
She was a woman who could not forget. She could not forget their agony and she refused
to let their stories go untold. Iris's life was short, but brilliant.
Like a splendid rainbow across the sky, one that the goddess she was named after would be proud of.
Iris's rainbow was magnificent, vanishing quickly.
A rainbow vanishing quickly.
And I guess that that is what we all are.
Parainbo vanishing quickly.
But before we vanish, I say, shine.
Shine. All that darkness in the world be the light, be the color, be the good and the strong
and the brightness that drives away the dark.
We have one chance here.
One chance, one opportunity to stretch across the sky and shine.
Shine. Value that. Value that value life in no death a light will spread.
And good will prevail. It will prevail over evil so long as we stand up.
Stand up against all that wickedness in the world.
We stand up.
Shine.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight. Echo.
Yes. What you go ahead and take the mic for a minute there.
While I decompress it around the side.
I was stalking with Greg Trane yesterday.
And you can complain about something where you can't embrace.
This is one of the big things that I learned from you.
And when you look at your own situation, you can compare to other past situations that are way worse.
Your situation isn't that bad. That's what you start with.
Then you go on to my situation. These are small teeny tiny challenges that all you have to do is approach.
This way of embracing it.
You're feeling frustrated about your situation.
When you put in perspective, these are small challenges that you just got to overcome.
You take it on as you want to put more work on my plate at work.
Because I can handle it. I'll do it the best and watch me work.
That is good. When we had Tim Ferriss on here.
And when I did Tim Ferriss interview the first time I was on his podcast.
It's the thing that I talked about when he came on here.
He asked the question, how close do you get to the darkness before it consumes you?
I've talked about before. If you stare into the soul of a monster, you have to be careful because you might become a monster.
Yeah.
I think the drugs that she got put on Robach, in this world, when she saw was the bad.
I think that Tim Ferriss's point where he was saying to me,
how often should I get close to the darkness? How often should I look at that?
My response was in order to know the light, you got to know the darkness.
But you can absolutely go too far in that direction.
Yeah.
And you can say to yourself, wow, the world is evil and everyone's evil and underneath the surface.
Everyone can turn into this Imperial Japanese soldier and commit these atrocities.
And that is what you absolutely, I would say be careful.
I don't know if that's the right word. I guess it is the right word be careful.
But to me, what you have to do is you have to balance it. And to me, as an American, as a
there's so much good, right? I think that people generally get jaded to all the good that's out there.
And that's why I say hey, you know what? Look over here at the darkness.
But for someone that's stuck in a horrible place, in a horrible situation in life,
those folks got to look out and say, wait a second, there's not there's so much good out there.
You know, if you take a, like that's clearly, I mean, you look at, look at Iris Chang.
I mean, she is smart and successful and beautiful and well-liked and had a good, she came up with
an amazing family. Her parents were a dordor, right? She had everything in her life was good,
right? And she lost all that. You know what? It's like, if you talk to anybody that flies
planes, right? If you go into a cloud, you lose your orientation. It happens in diving too.
It happens when you're surfing. If you fall off a big wave and you're getting rolled around,
sometimes it can be hard to tell which way is up, right? It can happen. You know, guys drive their
airplanes, they get lost in a cloud, they drive their airplanes into a mountain or they drive it into
the ground because they don't, they get disoriented and they lose sight of which way is up and
you or your underwater and you lose sight of which way is up. That's what you have to watch out for.
You got to be able to say, wait a second, if everything is black around me,
okay, stop. Let me get oriented. Let me, let me check my control panel in the water. It's
really easy. You got to look for bubbles, which way are the bubbles? The bubbles are going to go up.
And so when you get trapped in that darkness, these people end up in these situations where
everything looks black, stop. You're disoriented. You just can't see. You don't know the right
direction. It's okay. Figure out where the bubbles are. They're going to go to the surface and
when they get to the surface, there's going to be light and you're going to be okay.
Obviously, Iris, she got trapped. Drag down and disoriented in the darkness and she couldn't figure
out that she had a husband and a son and a family and a money and she had all these beautiful
things in her life. Yeah, which a lot of times especially if you go full speed in that direction,
where you don't know which way is up. So you're going down. Even the good things that come in,
you know, even, you know, when you get paranoid, something good and you're like, that's bad.
For instance, for instance, she's on a trip in Louisville, going to go do your speech or whatever,
and someone's checking her in the hotel. Maybe someone was saying, oh, I think that's Iris Chang.
I saw her in TV. And instead, she's thinking, oh, it's some nationalists that are coming to
get me. So yeah, she was absolutely. So that's something that I think and it's something that for
those of us that are not in that situation, how do you pay attention and observe people and make
sure that your friends or people you know or people that are in bad situations? How do you make
sure that they're getting enough that they know how to orient themselves and get back to the
surface and get away from all that horribleness. When you approach thing and I was talking to Greg,
that's kind of what, and this just reminded me of it. When you approach things like that, you,
you know how like you said, you're going down. If you don't know which way is up, you're going down.
A good thing, you're going to look at, that's a bad thing. Reenforcing my whole direction, by the way.
So if you approach it in a way where things that even would be frustrating to like an everyday
person, if you approach it like good, you know, I'm the one to do this thing, bring the challenge
because the challenge is a good, you know, that's the approach that'll reinforce that way of thinking.
Yes. So yes. You will be going, you know, and really when you explore darkness,
that's not to embrace the darkness and be dark. Like I said, don't become the
that's basically your trend of way ignorance. That's what you're doing. Yeah. Because you got no dark
and it's your contrast. It's a contrast. You can see, okay, guess what? In, for this case, I mean,
obviously, I pray I never have to read anything as heinous as that again and we're on the show.
But that happened. Yeah. Right. That happened. Yeah. That happened. We should not. You shouldn't go
through life and not realize that that happened. Yeah. That happened to you, that human being said,
that the other human being is horrible as it is. You need to realize that that is a part of our
human history. So that way you can say, you recognize and say, okay, this can happen.
And we need to watch out for it. And yeah. So look out for your friends, keep them knowing that
there's, keep them knowing which direction they're heading in and you see someone going sideways
bring them grab them. Especially with the, I mean, this is kind of a specific to this story, but the
the drugs, you know, when you take Medicaid, because that's a big one man, you can mess up your
pre, even like how you said when you get off the drugs, you know, because these are all chemical
things that you're made for certain things. For sure. So when that part goes sideways, you can't
like reason necessarily with someone, you know, they can't reason with you can't reason with
yourself, you know, stuff that would seem obvious. Hey, if I, you know, walk off this cliff,
it's obvious that's bad. It doesn't really work that way. If like your chemicals are off
definitely. So yeah, you kind of got to, you know, like look out for somebody if you can see that
happening. Yeah, no doubt. And it's very, it's very interesting. The, the mind is so incredibly
durable, but at the same time, it's just totally fragile and little, some little change to the,
to the composition or to the, to the chemicals that are in or to the fought patterns that are
in, you know, can be really drastic changes on a, on a person. Yeah, you ever have a real bad flu
and a fever in the neutral. Yeah, I have. You know, and it's almost like a mix between
dreaming hallucinating and like, because, man, it's like your thoughts are all jumbled up. Okay,
you want, you want to tell you an echo story right now? Yes. This will be a stupid echo story.
It's not a great story. So, so I was, like, 20, I was 23 years old or something. And I was doing
the dishes, speaking of doing the dishes. I was doing the dishes. And I turned on the water and I
didn't see what was happening, but this little stream, a tiny little stream of water had
broken through the pipe at some point in the handle and it, and it started to land on my hand.
Well, I didn't know that it was water because it must have been like the similar temperature to
what my body was at the time. And so I see this and it looks for, for a quarter of a second,
it looks like my hand is blistering. It's just, and it's spreading so rapidly. And for a quarter
of a second, I thought to myself, I'm being attacked by chemical warfare and I'm going to die in
the next half a second. I'm dead. I think we were doing some chemical warfare training or whatever.
And so, at that moment, for about a half a second, I thought I'm about to die and it only lasted
about, then either it lasted as water, and I said, oh, yeah, it's not. But my point is that
mentally, yeah, what, if, you know, a different situation, I could get locked into that mode.
And when you see Iris going, hey, these people are coming after me. If you get mentally locked
in that mode and you start seeing things that are that, that, you start imposing or overlaying
your reality over actual reality. You start augmenting reality yourself. That gets really, really scary.
Yeah. Like when you think someone's mad at you, you're at that. You think someone's mad at you.
So you're looking for all the little clues, you know, Peng, is this person mad at him here?
Or are they not, and normal everyday stuff? You know, why didn't, why did she text me back
quickly? Yeah, well, I know. I know, usually she puts a smiley face, no smiley face this time.
You know, she hates you. Yeah, she's mad. I know, she's mad. Something's wrong.
But yeah, so yeah, if you have me and while they're like, well, I don't know what time you're talking
about. Yeah. Anyway, speaking of being mad or should I say the opposite of being mad. So
this is what you do. Take alpha brain alpha brainy. The pre workout performance and strength.
And go workout. See what happens. That will make the record report back. Yeah.
Actually, that's something Iris and her mom both referred to a couple of times here. They were like,
her mom would say, you know, I want to, I want you to go exercise with me. And I, you know,
I should have put that in the podcast, but but hey, get the book and read it yourself. I mean,
that's what you need to do. I should have said that earlier. The rap and anking absolutely, you
know, get it. Try and read it when you're in a happy place, right? Yeah. It's hard, hard read.
It's might be the hardest read of any read possible. I don't know what could be harder than that.
And then the book, the woman who could not forget by Yingying Chang, which again,
chronicles her life and it's a really beautiful story. And with, with obviously with a tragic ending,
and hopefully lessons learned from it, one of the lessons being be physically, be physically active.
And her mom was trying to get her to go to the gym with her and work out with her because there's no doubt.
It's, it's, it's, it's physiologically fact. Physiological fact. When you work out, you get
in door from your least, you feel better. 100%. Yeah. And it also, which is good. I just heard this on
a Jo-Royan, and Dr. Ronda Patrick, is there any? She was talking about how working out exercise
like is it is one of the more powerful anti-aging. Oh, for sure. So, you know, like when you get older,
you know, you know, Alzheimer's. Yeah, yeah, yeah, she said not for physically aging, but for mentally
mental aging. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, man, it's just all around good deal.
Brad, this is so one time, I think I even mentioned, no, I didn't mention this. So one time, I
I might have drank maybe the night before. This was like a few months ago. And I didn't work out for a while,
you know, I was like, you know, immersed in, I don't know, work out. Either way, I didn't work. It was,
no, no, I got sick, and then I got hurt. So, I can, you know. So you cured that with the bottle.
Don't do that. I'm not. I'm gonna make myself better. No, you're not actually. Yeah.
It works. Yeah, I probably compounded. Good. Continue your story until everyone whatnot today.
Yeah, yeah. So don't do this. No, but there's happening. So at the, so boom, I was over the sickness
my injury was good, and I worked and I worked up kind of hard, too. And it was weird because I went
in the workout thinking, okay, I'm glad I get to go workout, but when when you're done,
okay, I'll admit this. And I think a lot of people have these thoughts where
maybe you've done something, like maybe you're routine for whatever reason is going over and over,
like just real repetitive. And then after all, yeah, true, but I'm just saying, sometimes these thoughts,
like, what does all this even mean? Like, what, what, what, okay, I'm gonna get this and this and
it's like, you think too much. After a while, I can't. So at the end of life, it's like, okay, I did all
this. I just, I don't know, it just didn't really, I was having some of those thoughts. They weren't
like super heavier enough, but they're in there. They're like, okay, great. Anyway, so anyway,
fast forward, I worked out, did the workout, God after it, textbook definition of God after it,
that was workout. I was done in, and actually not even done, I was like in the middle of the workout.
And I was like, dang, life has straight up meaning. Like, this is what life is. Not necessarily
the workout, just saying everything I'm doing. You know, it was that feeling. Was that the Alpha
Brain? I must have been. So what you're saying is get out of the right. I'm saying, I'm saying,
go workout. Right, like that point. You got it. I'm not saying you got it, but I'm saying, if you
want to, yeah, workout, workout for sure. Change your life. Take on it. Big
tip. Yeah, so that Alpha Brain, um, that's a neutral pick. That helps your memory and whatnot.
So anyway, if you're going to workout and you want to take some supplements, which I recommend now,
I was never supplement person. I tried them, but never was really into them. Or I'd be like,
you, you got to take this. Take the pre workout, performance and strength. That's what
it's called. Check. Take that one. What about shrimp tech? I'd say take the shrimp tech.
Who's being a pretty good? I've been stacking up on telling you. See, watch out. I haven't been
taking shrimp tech. Oh, really? I feel like that's like cheating. Not cheating, cheating, but I mean,
in due to it. I mean, I don't feel like it's cheating. No, it's not cheating, but I feel like
said you thought it was cheating. I feel like, I'll tell you what, it doesn't matter. I mean,
when it comes down to it, shrimp tech or no shrimp tech, bring it. Okay. Yeah. All right. None the
less. My original point was, okay, working out, that's the enhancer. That's the enhancer. If you want
to enhance the enhancer today, that's all I think. You keep making me think of more stuff. Okay,
I'll stop talking. Yeah. And then I feel like, oh, I should talk about that anyway. Working out
is important part. That enhances the life. Yes. Alphabran, these supplements, Alphabran,
shrimp tech, all these other ones. That enhances the workout, which is the enhancer. So,
enhance the enhancer kind of thing. Anyway, if you like these things, you want 10% off. You
don't want a pay full price or maybe do I don't know. But if you don't go on it.com slash
chocolate 10% off, support yourself as well and you're all it. I want to talk about Amazon, click through.
That's a good way to support. That's good because it's like, you know, small little thing doesn't
cost you anything as you always say. And, you know, big result, big support. Yeah, I'm going to make the
sodium and the fish tank analogy. I'm going to do it. Really? Yeah. Good because I wasn't expecting
that. Yeah, you throw the sodium in water and it blows up. Small species of sodium in the
bone blows up. That's important that you said that, but what would be more important would be
this actually say how you do Amazon click through. Yeah. So, yeah, I think you're right about that. So,
what you do is you go to joccrackcast.com, little banner on the side. There's the the UK1.co.uk
as well. Is there Germany? Yes, there's Germany. I think. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. It's right there on the
side. Boom. The main one, the top one or the one on top is the US one, Amazon.com. Click through there
before you do your Amazon shopping. That's the way to support. Doesn't cost you anything. Small
action, big reaction. Be the sodium. Be the sodium. Jocco is a store. It's called jocco store.
URL.jocco store.com. If you want shirts, disflin equals freedom, they're all jocco approved
an official. Go on there. Look at them. If you like them, get a shirt. Get a shirt.
By the way, they're not all jocco proof because I didn't approve the pink women's t-shirts. Yeah,
that's true. That was not approved. Right. That was actually jocco on approved. Yeah. But we
were mutiny and rebellion. Yeah, which is kind of part of the game too, right? No, not really.
Well, according to the shirts that we got, it is. Yeah, apparently. So, that one is technically not
jocco approved, but it's jocco on approved. So, it's dope nonetheless. And if you think they're
solid, then yeah, get a shirt, man. Support that way. It's a good way to support. Yeah, there's some
goodies on there in some rash guards. I've beginning to see more and more people with the rash
guards. Yeah, the rash guards seem to be popular. Yeah. Yeah, we stay victory in my main fitness.
Yeah. No, and online as well. See you guys doing it. Anyway, look at them. If you like something
gets something that's a good way to support. Coming out with a new travel mug. No, it improved.
No one improved. High quality. High ear quality. High ear quality. Yes, like, technically.
Hold you. If you put something hot in there, hope makes it keeps it hot for a long time.
L hours. If it gave hours or something like that, it's cold, same thing. I think cold keeps it
long. It keeps it cold longer. Anyway, that'll be on the store in two weeks. Yeah. Also, good way to support.
And this is actually supporting yourself big time. It's like a little helper. It's like when you're
benching, you ever bench. I don't bench much anymore. Okay. So, in the event of you benching,
this is what it's like. It's benching is the analogy. It's like someone's spotting you. If you need it,
this is what it is. Psychological warfare. You like the it is, right? It's like a spot. You don't need it.
You don't need it necessarily every day. You don't need it all the time. Maybe you do. Maybe you don't
depends on, you know, a lot of things. But if you do need it, even if you just want it,
hey, can you spot me? I might get the, I'll probably get all eight. Yeah. But you're there. You know,
just in case. That's what this is. So, if you're like, hey, I'm gonna, okay, this is what it is
for those who don't know. Like, people do know. But if you don't know, it's an album you can buy from
iTunes with tracks on it for different scenarios of what weakness you'd call it. I'm a little bit
of weakness. And you need a little spot and guess who's spotting you? Talk. That's the guy to spot.
You're very dependable. Very reliable. punctual. All that stuff. They're like two minutes long.
Give or take, yeah. There's one about, you know, before you're gonna go and eat,
yeah. There's one called sugar coated lies. Yeah. I think that one might be a good one.
You got the end of that one, which is, I think, one of the more memorable moments, lines,
whatever. And you say something about mobilized your will, because your will is stronger than the
will of a donut. Right. Yeah. So, factual. Bro, and that's the one you need. Isn't it pretty sad, though?
You think you're self, okay. I'm not gonna eat this donut. Yeah. Because I'm just gonna hold my
willpower, but then it's somehow the the will, because a war is a war of wills, right? That's the war
is. So now if you lose that war against the donut, then your will is weaker than the donut.
I'd know not to, yeah. That's not gonna happen. No, not without that. No, that's a
more for a play. You put it into perspective. You're like, here's the donut and you're like,
you're will is stronger than the donut. And then you eat the donut. You basically said,
I understand that, send them this donut. Will is stronger than my,
don't want to be that person. That's your life right there. Yeah. Man. Putting to perspective.
Anyway, if you need that spot psychological warfare from Jaco Willing, do a search, I do.
And it's also on other things that aren't iTunes. Yeah. So Amazon, music, it's on, it's on.
It's no Google play. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. Anywhere that where you can get like MP3 music.
Yeah. Is it called that anymore? MP, is that still a thing? MP3 music? Well, MP3 is just the
file. Right. So, remember that you used to be MP3 players? Yeah. Yeah. Technically, everything.
That can play MP3s isn't MP3 player. Yeah. So, yeah, get, check that one out. That one's a good,
and it's a good way to support, you know. So that's it's all around circle of support in that way. Yeah.
Also, if you want to get some Jaco White Tea, you can get it. You can get that on Amazon.
And when you get it, I know some people are a little nervous when they try it for the first time.
Just be careful. You don't want to, you know, be in a situation where you, you're going to go a little bit
harder than normal, right? To be ready for that. When you bring out the Jaco White, you can get
once you've used it before. You don't have to worry about there's no precautionary. Well, once you're
once you're using it, yeah. But when you start, yeah, be careful. Because you're going to go
with that little extra stuff that you're going to go on a tack mode. Yeah. It's kind of like when you turn
on your car and the volume is up a little bit more than you're ready for. You're like, oh, but then
if you do it again, you're like, I'm, you know, same thing. Same thing. So watch out for that Jaco White
Tea on Amazon. Also, for international orders, it's on eBay. The official listing is of the Jaco
podcast sold by Pearl Resourceing. So if you're international and you want to get it, you can do that.
And for those of you that in America, there, it says you see that the shipping is $100. That's not
for you to get it from there. It's for you to get on Amazon if you're in America. If you're overseas,
the shipping won't show $100. We'll show whatever the cost is. So I've had a couple people like say,
why is the shipping $100? It's not. It's Amazon Prime. The shipping is no cost. Don't get it from
eBay. You understand what I say? So if you're in the US, if you're in the US and you made it, you're
going to be going to be trying to get it. The shipping will show $100. Don't get it from eBay. You're
not supposed to. We don't want to sell to everybody in America. We can't handle that. But we can sell
to some people overseas. Here's what you do. Jaco Tea.com. And that has this information on the
terms. So it doesn't have that particular information, but it's like just a basic website.
Dang, we didn't. I don't know why I didn't mention this before. So basic website, it's like,
oh, you're in the US order from here. Okay. And international order from here. Jaco Tea.
There is. Jaco Tea.com. It's on Jaco. It's on Jaco Store 2, but it's like you got to go to the
tab and then go to the page. You know, it's it's it's it's a thing. But go to Jaco Tea.com. If you if you're
just down for the tea, just need the tea there you go. Yeah. All right. Well, that's well, thank you
for informing us of that. Yet another website for those of you that are asking to get after it mugs,
we're looking at March to be honest with you. So keep looking. Also, you know, kids,
we got kids out there running around. We know that we know that kids are in
pressional. Yes, right. As they're growing up, we know that we also know that it's hard to be a
kid. Right. You come up against hard times. And if you want to help kids get through some hard times,
you can order this book that I just wrote pre-order it. It's called Way of the Warrior Kid.
And this is the weird thing about this book. So the other day I was talking to somebody,
it might have even been you. After I got done with edits like the final edits, I was talking
to someone. Yeah, you know, I just finished the final edits and I said, it's awesome. And then I
felt kind of weird because it's not exactly the most humble way to describe your work, right? Nope.
So I felt that. Like as soon as I said, I said, why am I saying that this book is awesome? That's
not like me. I didn't walk around and go extreme ownership. It's a best book ever. Yeah, I think
I'm all extreme ownership is awesome. I don't say, oh, listen to my podcast. It's awesome. No,
I don't say that. I said, hey, you know, if you want to listen to it, it might be interesting.
Oh, extreme ownership is good. You know, you might might get some value out of it. I'm not running
around saying, I'm awesome. Yeah. Some reason I said, oh, this book, I just got done reading it,
editing it. It's awesome. Right? So I kind of wondered why I said that and then I realized
that, wow, I'm reading. Okay. So when I wrote it, right, I wrote it like I was in a 10 year old kid.
Like, but that wasn't me. It was the guy that's in the book, Mark, because he's the character. Right.
So when I read it, it sounds like him. It doesn't sound like me. It sounds like him. Yeah. So
I read the book and I, I think it's him. That wrote it. This kid. Right. And I think to myself,
someone said, how's the book? And I go, man, it's awesome. So yeah, that's what I realized. And
but it is the kind of story that sounds, it's good to read. Mark the kid, the 10 year old kid.
He's hurt. Right. He's made fun of. Can't do any pull-ups. Doesn't know his time
to stay. It doesn't know how to swim. And he's getting bullied by Kenny Williamsson.
Okay. You know Kenny Williamsson. We all know this. I'm going to post a picture. Can you? I haven't
introduced Kenny Williamsson yet to the public, but I don't know get a picture out to him. So he's
going through all this trials and tribulations about luckily his uncle Jake happens to be a big
tough frog man. He's going to come and stay with him for the summer. And when, oh, guess what?
But when, when Mark breaks down, because he doesn't tell his mom what's going on, because his
mom just is kind of, you know, she doesn't, she doesn't quite, you know, you know what she's
going to say? Oh, right. You'll learn that stuff. She could say, oh, honey, you're a nice boy. Don't
worry about that big bully. He won't bother you anymore. No, no, my mom actually he will. Right.
So, so Mark breaks down kind of, he won't tell his mom, but then uncle comes and his uncle's like,
hey, we, you know, we're gonna hang out. What are you gonna do? Do anything I get swim breaks down.
So, you know what uncle Jake says when Mark gets done listing all of his problems?
They don't. He says, good. All those problems you got? We can take care of those problems. Those
are all solvable. All we got to do is we got to work, we got to study, we got to train. And that's
what they do. So, like I said, I won't say it's awesome. But from the perspective of the kid,
when you look at it, if a kid wrote that, you'd say that's a pretty good story. You got there. And
here's a deal. A pre-order on Amazon. Why? Why pre-order? Let me tell you why. They got to
print it, right? And they're gonna print, they're gonna go, oh, you know, it's a kids'
ball. And kids' books don't sound very well. So, you know, you just, we'll print out 80 copies.
What are you know, we got their formula. They got their formula. Right? The formula's not going to work.
Just like it didn't work for Jogway. The formula is not going to work. So, the earlier that you pre-order,
the more they'll print, the then that we won't have the shortage, the scenario, the massive
screaming in the street saying, give us a book. So pre-order and that'll take care of that while you're
doing it, pick up, rape and anti-naking. Iris Chang. These will be on the Joggo podcast store,
click through in the book section. No, not the store. Joggo podcast.com. Joggo podcast.com books
and the woman who could not forget grab that one. Of course, you can also pick up, you can pick
up a couple copies of Extreme Ownership, which is the book written by myself and Lave Babin. And
you know what? Get a few copies and I'll tell you why. Because you got to give them to your
people on the team. Right? How many people write to me to I gave this to someone so and they said,
thank you. Yeah, this is great. Get them home the game. You know they need it. If you didn't have it,
would you want somebody to give it to you? Let me ask you that question. Yes, you would. It's going
to help you out with your game. So you're going to want to do that. And by the way, if you're
caught, if you're at your company, your business and you need some some leadership alignment,
you're got some little situations going on, you can check out Lave Babin. I also we don't
a book. We also have a company called Eshelon Front. You can check that out. That's what we do,
leadership and management consulting. And that's what we do. We get companies, leadership aligned
and on the same page and give them the tools to lead and win. Enough said on that. Also with
Extreme Ownership, we got the mustard coming, mustard number two, May 4th and 5th,
Mary at Marquis New York City. Boom. Yeah. Now, you know, people talk about people say,
oh, it's a game changer. Right. People say that. Sure. I think and then you usually go,
really, they had changed. They got a new flavor of tortilla chips at the restaurant. It's a game
changer. No, that's not a game changer. But description, kind of the most common description I've
heard of mustard number one that we didn't send Diego is game changer. So people are getting after
it leadership, management, health, due to the good stuff. Of course, I'm going to be there. Of course,
Lave Babin, he's going to be there. Obviously echo Charles, going to be there. JP to now you heard
him on the podcast. You're going to see him there. And we none of us, none of us are meeting backstage.
There will not be a backstage. We're not going to be there. We'll be with you out front talking,
discussing solving problems and crushing things. So come and get that May 4th and 5th. And until
the mustard, while you're waiting to get to the mustard, you can still kick it with us. Absolutely,
because we're on the interwebs. We are on Instagram. We are on Twitter as well. And if you're going
to be looking for that one, that Facebook, you know, where on that one as well. So you can find us
there. Echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocca Willink. And finally, thanks to everyone for what
you do in the military and the police and the fire department, thanks to you all for keeping us safe.
And then the workforce, the troopers around the world, creating and building what we have,
making the world a better place. Thank you for what you do grinding and pushing,
and making things happen. And again, I know that this podcast was hard to listen to.
I know that this episode was disturbing. And it was hard for me to read. But again, to me,
it is a reminder. It's a reminder to all of us that darkness is real. And as I said, we cannot get
lost in that darkness. And we can't let the people we know get lost in that darkness. And it's a
reminder that we have to illuminate that darkness. And we cannot, we cannot let evil thrive and
permeate, permeate. We can't let it permeate on a mass scale like an N. King or on a personal level.
Like the beautiful Iris Chang. So get out there. Get out there. Live your life.
Get after it. Get after it every day. Go out there into the world.
And shine.
So until next time, this is echo and jocco out.